SECURITY.md, before:

# Security Policy

Security vulnerabilities should be disclosed to the project maintainers through [Immunefi], or alternatively by email to security@openzeppelin.com.

[Immunefi]: https://immunefi.com/bounty/openzeppelin

## Bug Bounty

Responsible disclosure of security vulnerabilities is rewarded through a bug bounty program on [Immunefi].

There is a bonus reward for issues introduced in release candidates that are reported before making it into a stable release.

## Security Patches

Security vulnerabilities will be patched as soon as responsibly possible, and published as an advisory on this repository (see [advisories]) and on the affected npm packages.

[advisories]: https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/security/advisories

Projects that build on OpenZeppelin Contracts are encouraged to clearly state, in their source code and websites, how to be contacted about security issues in the event that a direct notification is considered necessary. Additionally, we recommend installing the library through npm and setting up vulnerability alerts such as [Dependabot].

[Dependabot]: https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/supply-chain-security/understanding-your-software-supply-chain/about-supply-chain-security#what-is-dependabot

### Supported Versions

Security patches will be released for the latest minor of a given major release. For example, if an issue is found in versions >=4.6.0 and the latest is 4.8.0, the patch will be released only in version 4.8.1.

Only critical severity bug fixes will be backported to past major releases.

| Version | Critical security fixes | Other security fixes |
| ------- | ----------------------- | -------------------- |
| 4.x     | :white_check_mark:      | :white_check_mark:   |
| 3.4     | :white_check_mark:      | :x:                  |
| 2.5     | :white_check_mark:      | :x:                  |
| < 2.0   | :x:                     | :x:                  |

Note as well that the Solidity language itself only guarantees security updates for the latest release.

Commit message:

add @custom:security-contact guideline

SECURITY.md, after:

# Security Policy

Security vulnerabilities should be disclosed to the project maintainers through [Immunefi], or alternatively by email to security@openzeppelin.com.

[Immunefi]: https://immunefi.com/bounty/openzeppelin

## Bug Bounty

Responsible disclosure of security vulnerabilities is rewarded through a bug bounty program on [Immunefi].

There is a bonus reward for issues introduced in release candidates that are reported before making it into a stable release.

## Security Patches

Security vulnerabilities will be patched as soon as responsibly possible, and published as an advisory on this repository (see [advisories]) and on the affected npm packages.

[advisories]: https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-contracts/security/advisories

Projects that build on OpenZeppelin Contracts are encouraged to clearly state, in their source code and websites, how to be contacted about security issues in the event that a direct notification is considered necessary. We recommend including it in the NatSpec for the contract as `/// @custom:security-contact security@example.com`.

Additionally, we recommend installing the library through npm and setting up vulnerability alerts such as [Dependabot].

[Dependabot]: https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/supply-chain-security/understanding-your-software-supply-chain/about-supply-chain-security#what-is-dependabot

### Supported Versions

Security patches will be released for the latest minor of a given major release. For example, if an issue is found in versions >=4.6.0 and the latest is 4.8.0, the patch will be released only in version 4.8.1.

Only critical severity bug fixes will be backported to past major releases.

| Version | Critical security fixes | Other security fixes |
| ------- | ----------------------- | -------------------- |
| 4.x     | :white_check_mark:      | :white_check_mark:   |
| 3.4     | :white_check_mark:      | :x:                  |
| 2.5     | :white_check_mark:      | :x:                  |
| < 2.0   | :x:                     | :x:                  |

Note as well that the Solidity language itself only guarantees security updates for the latest release.
