docs/modules/ROOT/pages/gsn.adoc, before:

= The Gas Station Network

*https://gsn.openzeppelin.com[Website]*

User onboarding is one of the hottest topics in Ethereum. UI/UX along with scalability have been identified as the main problems that prevent adoption. Meta-transactions are a key component to improve the user experience.
Here you'll learn all about the Gas Station Network (GSN) and how to write contracts that don't require their users to hold Ether to pay for gas.

If you're already up to speed with the workings of the GSN, feel free to skip to <<Receiving a relayed call>>, where we'll go over how to use the OpenZeppelin Contracts to easily write a GSNRecipient contract. Otherwise, strap in!

WARNING: This feature is under development, and will be released in the next version of `@openzeppelin/contracts`.

== Sending gas-less transactions

All Ethereum transactions use gas, and the sender of each transaction must have enough Ether to pay for the gas spent. Even though these gas costs are low for basic transactions (a couple of cents), getting this Ether is no easy task: dApp users often need to go through Know Your Customer and Anti Money-Laundering processes (KYC & AML), which not only takes time but often involves sending a selfie holding their passport over the Internet (!).
On top of that, they also need to provide financial information to be able to purchase Ether through an exchange.
Only the most hardcore users will put up with this hassle, and dApp adoption greatly suffers when Ether is required. We can do better.

**Enter meta-transactions**. This is a fancy name for a simple idea: a third-party can send another user's transactions and pay themselves for the gas cost. That's it! There's some tricky technical details, but those can be safely ignored when interacting with the GSN. This way, instead of your users calling into your contract (called the _recipient_) directly, someone else (we'll call them a _relayer_) will send their transaction and pay for the cost.

But why would they do such a thing?

== Incentives

Relayers are not running a charity: they're running a business. The reason why they'll gladly pay for your users' gas costs is because they will in turn charge your contract, the recipient. That way relayers get their money back, plus a bit extra as a _fee_ for their services.

This may sound strange at first, but paying for user onboarding is a very common business practice. Lots of money is spent on advertising, free trials, new user discounts, etc., all with the https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Customer_acquisition_cost[goal of user acquisition]. Compared to those, the cost of a couple of Ethereum transactions is actually very small.

Additionally, you can leverage the GSN in scenarios where your users pay you off-chain in advance (e.g. via credit card), with each GSN-call deducting from their balance on your system. The possibilities are endless!

=== Should I trust these relayers?

You don't need to! The GSN is set up in such a way where it's in the relayers' best interest to serve your requests, and there are measures in place to penalize them if they misbehave. All of this happens automatically, so you can safely start using their services worry-free.

== One contract to coordinate them all

There are many meta-transaction implementations out there, but the GSN has a unique detail that makes it special. Inside its core, a smart contract is responsible for keeping track of relayers, handling relayed transactions, charging their recipients, and generally ensuring all parties stay honest. This contract is called RelayHub, and there is a _single_ instance of it in the whole network (you don't need to deploy your own!). Think of it as a piece of public infrastructure, for all Ethereum users to benefit from.

One of RelayHub's jobs is to act as a, well, _hub_ for all relayers: they will advertise their services on this contract, and your users will query it to find the relayer that best suits their purposes. This is out of scope for this guide however, and is not something you need to worry about when writing a recipient contract. If you want to learn more about sending transactions via relayers, head to our https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-gsn-provider[GSNProvider guide].

The other key task RelayHub carries out is the actual _relaying of transactions_, the sole purpose behind this whole system. Instead of calling a function in your contract directly, your users will request a relayer to do it for them, who will then execute RelayHub's relayCall function. RelayHub will verify that the transaction is legitimate (protecting both users and recipients from dishonest relayers), and then call into your contract as originally requested by your user. This requires your recipient trusting RelayHub to do the right thing, but since it is a smart contract, this is as simple as reading its source code!

NOTE: The RelayHub address will be the same in each network. Right now, the latest relay hub is live with this address `0xD216153c06E857cD7f72665E0aF1d7D82172F494`.

== Receiving a relayed call

We've mentioned how the RelayHub, and not your user, the one that actually ends up calling a function in your contract. We will refer to this as the _relayed call_. OpenZeppelin Contracts includes a number of utilities to make receiving relayed calls as easy as developing a regular Solidity contract, without needing to worry about the low level details.

The first step to writing a recipient is to inherit from our GSNRecipient contract. If you're also inheriting from other OpenZeppelin contracts, such as ERC20 or Crowdsale, this will work just fine: adding GSNRecipient to all of your token or crowdsale functions will make them GSN-callable.

```solidity
import "@openzeppelin/contracts/GSN/GSNRecipient.sol";

contract MyContract is GSNRecipient, ... {

}
```

=== msg.sender and msg.data

There's only one extra detail you need to take care of when working with GSN recipient contracts: _you must never use `msg.sender` or `msg.data` directly_. On relayed calls, `msg.sender` will be `RelayHub` instead of your user! This doesn't mean however you won't be able to retrieve your users' addresses: `GSNRecipient` provides two functions, `_msgSender()` and `_msgData()`, which are drop-in replacements for `msg.sender` and `msg.data` while taking care of the low-level details. As long as you use these two functions instead of the original getters, you're good to go!

WARNING: Third-party contracts you inherit from may not use these replacement functions, making them unsafe to use when mixed with `GSNRecipient`. If in doubt, head on over to our https://forum.openzeppelin.com/c/support[support forum].

=== Accepting and charging

Unlike regular contract function calls, each relayed call has an additional number of steps it must go through, which are functions of the `IRelayRecipient` interface `RelayHub` will call on your contract. `GSNRecipient` includes this interface but no implementation: most of writing a recipient involves handling these function calls. They are designed to provide flexibility, but basic recipients can safely ignore most of them while still being secure and sound.

The OpenZeppelin Contracts provide a number of tried-and-tested approaches for you to use out of the box, but you should still have a basic idea of what's going on under the hood.

==== acceptRelayedCall

First, RelayHub will ask your recipient contract if it wants to receive a relayed call. Recall that you will be charged for incurred gas costs by the relayer, so you should only accept calls that you're willing to pay for!

[source,solidity]
----
function acceptRelayedCall(
  address relay,
  address from,
  bytes calldata encodedFunction,
  uint256 transactionFee,
  uint256 gasPrice,
  uint256 gasLimit,
  uint256 nonce,
  bytes calldata approvalData,
  uint256 maxPossibleCharge
) external view returns (uint256, bytes memory);
----

There are multiple ways to make this work, including:

. having a whitelist of trusted users
. only accepting calls to an onboarding function
. charging users in tokens (possibly issued by you)
. delegating the acceptance logic off-chain

All relayed call requests can be rejected at no cost to the recipient.

In this function, you return a number indicating whether you accept the call (0) or not (any other number). You can also return some arbitrary data that will get passed along to the following two functions (pre and post) as an execution context.

=== pre and postRelayedCall

After a relayed call is accepted, RelayHub will give your contract two opportunities to charge your user for their call, perform some bookeeping, etc.: _before_ and _after_ the actual relayed call is made. These functions are aptly named `preRelayedCall` and `postRelayedCall`.

[source,solidity]
----

function preRelayedCall(bytes calldata context) external returns (bytes32);
----

`preRelayedCall` will inform you of the maximum cost the call may have, and can be used to charge the user in advance. This is useful if the user may spend their allowance as part of the call, so you can lock some funds here.

[source,solidity]
----

function postRelayedCall(
  bytes calldata context,
  bool success,
  uint actualCharge,
  bytes32 preRetVal
) external;
----

`postRelayedCall` will give you an accurate estimate of the transaction cost, making it a natural place to charge users. It will also let you know if the relayed call reverted or not. This allows you, for instance, to not charge users for reverted calls - but remember that you will be charged by the relayer nonetheless.

These functions allow you to implement, for instance, a flow where you charge your users for the relayed transactions in a custom token. You can lock some of their tokens in `pre`, and execute the actual charge in `post`. This is similar to how gas fees work in Ethereum: the network first locks enough ETH to pay for the transaction's gas limit at its gas price, and then pays for what it actually spent.

== Payment

By now you may be wondering how exactly relayers charge their recipients for gas costs and service fees. The answer is simple: each recipient must have funds deposited on RelayHub in advance, and payment is automatically handled on each relayed call.

You can head to the https://gsn.openzeppelin.com/recipients[GSN Recipient Tool] to check and top-up your contracts' balance, view previous charges, or do all of this programatically by calling `IRelayHub.depositFor` and `IRelayHub.balanceOf`.

Recipients may withdraw their balance from the system at any point, but remember that they will not be able to receive any further relayed calls!

== Further reading

* The https://medium.com/@rrecuero/eth-onboarding-solution-90607fb81380[GSN announcement post] provides a good *overview of the system*, along with some use cases to take inspiration from.
* If you want to learn how to use *OpenZeppelin Contract's pre-made accept and charge strategies*, head to the xref:gsn_advanced.adoc[Advanced GSN Guide].
* If instead you wish to know more about how to *use GSN from your application*, head to the https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-gsn-provider[OpenZeppelin GSN provider guides].
* For information on how to *test GSN-enabled contracts*, go to the https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-gsn-helpers[OpenZeppelin test helpers documentation].

Commit message:

update note about gsn being under development

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/gsn.adoc, after:

= The Gas Station Network

*https://gsn.openzeppelin.com[Website]*

User onboarding is one of the hottest topics in Ethereum. UI/UX along with scalability have been identified as the main problems that prevent adoption. Meta-transactions are a key component to improve the user experience.
Here you'll learn all about the Gas Station Network (GSN) and how to write contracts that don't require their users to hold Ether to pay for gas.

If you're already up to speed with the workings of the GSN, feel free to skip to <<Receiving a relayed call>>, where we'll go over how to use the OpenZeppelin Contracts to easily write a GSNRecipient contract. Otherwise, strap in!

NOTE: This feature is being released in the next version of `@openzeppelin/contracts`, available right now through `npm install @openzeppelin/contracts@next`.

== Sending gas-less transactions

All Ethereum transactions use gas, and the sender of each transaction must have enough Ether to pay for the gas spent. Even though these gas costs are low for basic transactions (a couple of cents), getting this Ether is no easy task: dApp users often need to go through Know Your Customer and Anti Money-Laundering processes (KYC & AML), which not only takes time but often involves sending a selfie holding their passport over the Internet (!).
On top of that, they also need to provide financial information to be able to purchase Ether through an exchange.
Only the most hardcore users will put up with this hassle, and dApp adoption greatly suffers when Ether is required. We can do better.

**Enter meta-transactions**. This is a fancy name for a simple idea: a third-party can send another user's transactions and pay themselves for the gas cost. That's it! There's some tricky technical details, but those can be safely ignored when interacting with the GSN. This way, instead of your users calling into your contract (called the _recipient_) directly, someone else (we'll call them a _relayer_) will send their transaction and pay for the cost.

But why would they do such a thing?

== Incentives

Relayers are not running a charity: they're running a business. The reason why they'll gladly pay for your users' gas costs is because they will in turn charge your contract, the recipient. That way relayers get their money back, plus a bit extra as a _fee_ for their services.

This may sound strange at first, but paying for user onboarding is a very common business practice. Lots of money is spent on advertising, free trials, new user discounts, etc., all with the https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Customer_acquisition_cost[goal of user acquisition]. Compared to those, the cost of a couple of Ethereum transactions is actually very small.

Additionally, you can leverage the GSN in scenarios where your users pay you off-chain in advance (e.g. via credit card), with each GSN-call deducting from their balance on your system. The possibilities are endless!

=== Should I trust these relayers?

You don't need to! The GSN is set up in such a way where it's in the relayers' best interest to serve your requests, and there are measures in place to penalize them if they misbehave. All of this happens automatically, so you can safely start using their services worry-free.

== One contract to coordinate them all

There are many meta-transaction implementations out there, but the GSN has a unique detail that makes it special. Inside its core, a smart contract is responsible for keeping track of relayers, handling relayed transactions, charging their recipients, and generally ensuring all parties stay honest. This contract is called RelayHub, and there is a _single_ instance of it in the whole network (you don't need to deploy your own!). Think of it as a piece of public infrastructure, for all Ethereum users to benefit from.

One of RelayHub's jobs is to act as a, well, _hub_ for all relayers: they will advertise their services on this contract, and your users will query it to find the relayer that best suits their purposes. This is out of scope for this guide however, and is not something you need to worry about when writing a recipient contract. If you want to learn more about sending transactions via relayers, head to our https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-gsn-provider[GSNProvider guide].

The other key task RelayHub carries out is the actual _relaying of transactions_, the sole purpose behind this whole system. Instead of calling a function in your contract directly, your users will request a relayer to do it for them, who will then execute RelayHub's relayCall function. RelayHub will verify that the transaction is legitimate (protecting both users and recipients from dishonest relayers), and then call into your contract as originally requested by your user. This requires your recipient trusting RelayHub to do the right thing, but since it is a smart contract, this is as simple as reading its source code!

NOTE: The RelayHub address will be the same in each network. Right now, the latest relay hub is live with this address `0xD216153c06E857cD7f72665E0aF1d7D82172F494`.

== Receiving a relayed call

We've mentioned how the RelayHub, and not your user, the one that actually ends up calling a function in your contract. We will refer to this as the _relayed call_. OpenZeppelin Contracts includes a number of utilities to make receiving relayed calls as easy as developing a regular Solidity contract, without needing to worry about the low level details.

The first step to writing a recipient is to inherit from our GSNRecipient contract. If you're also inheriting from other OpenZeppelin contracts, such as ERC20 or Crowdsale, this will work just fine: adding GSNRecipient to all of your token or crowdsale functions will make them GSN-callable.

```solidity
import "@openzeppelin/contracts/GSN/GSNRecipient.sol";

contract MyContract is GSNRecipient, ... {

}
```

=== msg.sender and msg.data

There's only one extra detail you need to take care of when working with GSN recipient contracts: _you must never use `msg.sender` or `msg.data` directly_. On relayed calls, `msg.sender` will be `RelayHub` instead of your user! This doesn't mean however you won't be able to retrieve your users' addresses: `GSNRecipient` provides two functions, `_msgSender()` and `_msgData()`, which are drop-in replacements for `msg.sender` and `msg.data` while taking care of the low-level details. As long as you use these two functions instead of the original getters, you're good to go!

WARNING: Third-party contracts you inherit from may not use these replacement functions, making them unsafe to use when mixed with `GSNRecipient`. If in doubt, head on over to our https://forum.openzeppelin.com/c/support[support forum].

=== Accepting and charging

Unlike regular contract function calls, each relayed call has an additional number of steps it must go through, which are functions of the `IRelayRecipient` interface `RelayHub` will call on your contract. `GSNRecipient` includes this interface but no implementation: most of writing a recipient involves handling these function calls. They are designed to provide flexibility, but basic recipients can safely ignore most of them while still being secure and sound.

The OpenZeppelin Contracts provide a number of tried-and-tested approaches for you to use out of the box, but you should still have a basic idea of what's going on under the hood.

==== acceptRelayedCall

First, RelayHub will ask your recipient contract if it wants to receive a relayed call. Recall that you will be charged for incurred gas costs by the relayer, so you should only accept calls that you're willing to pay for!

[source,solidity]
----
function acceptRelayedCall(
  address relay,
  address from,
  bytes calldata encodedFunction,
  uint256 transactionFee,
  uint256 gasPrice,
  uint256 gasLimit,
  uint256 nonce,
  bytes calldata approvalData,
  uint256 maxPossibleCharge
) external view returns (uint256, bytes memory);
----

There are multiple ways to make this work, including:

. having a whitelist of trusted users
. only accepting calls to an onboarding function
. charging users in tokens (possibly issued by you)
. delegating the acceptance logic off-chain

All relayed call requests can be rejected at no cost to the recipient.

In this function, you return a number indicating whether you accept the call (0) or not (any other number). You can also return some arbitrary data that will get passed along to the following two functions (pre and post) as an execution context.

=== pre and postRelayedCall

After a relayed call is accepted, RelayHub will give your contract two opportunities to charge your user for their call, perform some bookeeping, etc.: _before_ and _after_ the actual relayed call is made. These functions are aptly named `preRelayedCall` and `postRelayedCall`.

[source,solidity]
----

function preRelayedCall(bytes calldata context) external returns (bytes32);
----

`preRelayedCall` will inform you of the maximum cost the call may have, and can be used to charge the user in advance. This is useful if the user may spend their allowance as part of the call, so you can lock some funds here.

[source,solidity]
----

function postRelayedCall(
  bytes calldata context,
  bool success,
  uint actualCharge,
  bytes32 preRetVal
) external;
----

`postRelayedCall` will give you an accurate estimate of the transaction cost, making it a natural place to charge users. It will also let you know if the relayed call reverted or not. This allows you, for instance, to not charge users for reverted calls - but remember that you will be charged by the relayer nonetheless.

These functions allow you to implement, for instance, a flow where you charge your users for the relayed transactions in a custom token. You can lock some of their tokens in `pre`, and execute the actual charge in `post`. This is similar to how gas fees work in Ethereum: the network first locks enough ETH to pay for the transaction's gas limit at its gas price, and then pays for what it actually spent.

== Payment

By now you may be wondering how exactly relayers charge their recipients for gas costs and service fees. The answer is simple: each recipient must have funds deposited on RelayHub in advance, and payment is automatically handled on each relayed call.

You can head to the https://gsn.openzeppelin.com/recipients[GSN Recipient Tool] to check and top-up your contracts' balance, view previous charges, or do all of this programatically by calling `IRelayHub.depositFor` and `IRelayHub.balanceOf`.

Recipients may withdraw their balance from the system at any point, but remember that they will not be able to receive any further relayed calls!

== Further reading

* The https://medium.com/@rrecuero/eth-onboarding-solution-90607fb81380[GSN announcement post] provides a good *overview of the system*, along with some use cases to take inspiration from.
* If you want to learn how to use *OpenZeppelin Contract's pre-made accept and charge strategies*, head to the xref:gsn_advanced.adoc[Advanced GSN Guide].
* If instead you wish to know more about how to *use GSN from your application*, head to the https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-gsn-provider[OpenZeppelin GSN provider guides].
* For information on how to *test GSN-enabled contracts*, go to the https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/openzeppelin-gsn-helpers[OpenZeppelin test helpers documentation].
