contracts/token/ERC20/README.md, before:

---
sections:
  - title: Core
    contracts:
      - IERC20
      - ERC20
      - ERC20Detailed
  - title: Extensions
    contracts:
      - ERC20Mintable
      - ERC20Burnable
      - ERC20Pausable
      - ERC20Capped
  - title: Utilities
    contracts:
      - SafeERC20
      - TokenTimelock
---

This set of interfaces, contracts, and utilities are all related to the [ERC20 Token Standard](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-20).

*For a walkthrough on how to create an ERC20 token read our [ERC20 guide](../../tokens.md#constructing-a-nice-erc20-token).*

There a few core contracts that implement the behavior specified in the EIP: `IERC20`, `ERC20`, `ERC20Detailed`.

Additionally there are multiple extensions, including:
- designation of addresses that can create token supply (`ERC20Mintable`), with an optional maximum cap (`ERC20Capped`),
- destruction of own tokens (`ERC20Burnable`),
- designation of addresses that can pause token operations for all users (`ERC20Pausable`).

Finally, there are some utilities to interact with ERC20 contracts in various ways.
- `SafeERC20` is a wrapper around the interface that eliminates the need to handle boolean return values.
- `TokenTimelock` can hold tokens for a beneficiary until a specified time.

> This page is incomplete. We're working to improve it for the next release. Stay tuned!

Commit message:

New guides (#1792)
* Improved tokens guide, add ERC777.

* Fix typo.

* Add release schedule and api stability.

* Add erc20 supply guide.

* Revamp get started

* Add Solidity version to examples

* Update access control guide.

* Add small disclaimer to blog guides

* Update tokens guide.

* Update docs/access-control.md

Co-Authored-By: Francisco Giordano <frangio.1@gmail.com>

* Update docs/access-control.md

Co-Authored-By: Francisco Giordano <frangio.1@gmail.com>

* Update docs/access-control.md

Co-Authored-By: Francisco Giordano <frangio.1@gmail.com>

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-Authored-By: Francisco Giordano <frangio.1@gmail.com>

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-Authored-By: Francisco Giordano <frangio.1@gmail.com>

* Documentation: Typos and add npm init -y to setup instructions (#1793)

* Fix typos in GameItem ERC721 sample contract

* Add npm init -y to create package.json

* Address review comments.

contracts/token/ERC20/README.md, after:

---
sections:
  - title: Core
    contracts:
      - IERC20
      - ERC20
      - ERC20Detailed
  - title: Extensions
    contracts:
      - ERC20Mintable
      - ERC20Burnable
      - ERC20Pausable
      - ERC20Capped
  - title: Utilities
    contracts:
      - SafeERC20
      - TokenTimelock
---

This set of interfaces, contracts, and utilities are all related to the [ERC20 Token Standard](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-20).

*For an overview of ERC20 tokens and a walkthrough on how to create a token contract read our [ERC20 guide](../../tokens#erc20).*

There a few core contracts that implement the behavior specified in the EIP:
 - `IERC20`: the interface all ERC20 implementations should conform to
 - `ERC20`: the base implementation of the ERC20 interface
 - `ERC20Detailed`: includes the `name()`, `symbol()` and `decimals()` optional standard extension to the base interface

Additionally there are multiple custom extensions, including:
- designation of addresses that can create token supply (`ERC20Mintable`), with an optional maximum cap (`ERC20Capped`)
- destruction of own tokens (`ERC20Burnable`)
- designation of addresses that can pause token operations for all users (`ERC20Pausable`).

Finally, there are some utilities to interact with ERC20 contracts in various ways.
- `SafeERC20` is a wrapper around the interface that eliminates the need to handle boolean return values.
- `TokenTimelock` can hold tokens for a beneficiary until a specified time.

> This page is incomplete. We're working to improve it for the next release. Stay tuned!
