contracts/token/ERC721/README.adoc, before:

= ERC 721

This set of interfaces, contracts, and utilities are all related to the https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-721[ERC721 Non-Fungible Token Standard].

TIP: For a walkthrough on how to create an ERC721 token read our xref:ROOT:erc721.adoc[ERC721 guide].

The EIP consists of three interfaces, found here as {IERC721}, {IERC721Metadata}, and {IERC721Enumerable}. Only the first one is required in a contract to be ERC721 compliant. However, all three are implemented in {ERC721}.

Additionally, {IERC721Receiver} can be used to prevent tokens from becoming forever locked in contracts. Imagine sending an in-game item to an exchange address that can't send it back!. When using <<IERC721-safeTransferFrom,`safeTransferFrom`>>, the token contract checks to see that the receiver is an {IERC721Receiver}, which implies that it knows how to handle {ERC721} tokens. If you're writing a contract that needs to receive {ERC721} tokens, you'll want to include this interface.

Additionally there are multiple custom extensions, including:

* designation of addresses that can pause token transfers for all users ({ERC721Pausable}).
* destruction of own tokens ({ERC721Burnable}).

== Core

{{IERC721}}

{{IERC721Metadata}}

{{IERC721Enumerable}}

{{ERC721}}

{{IERC721Receiver}}

== Extensions

{{ERC721Pausable}}

{{ERC721Burnable}}

== Convenience

{{ERC721Holder}}

Commit message:

Add readme notices with link to docs site (#2300)
* add readme notices

* remove period after url

contracts/token/ERC721/README.adoc, after:

= ERC 721

[.readme-notice]
NOTE: This document is better viewed at https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/api/token/erc721

This set of interfaces, contracts, and utilities are all related to the https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-721[ERC721 Non-Fungible Token Standard].

TIP: For a walkthrough on how to create an ERC721 token read our xref:ROOT:erc721.adoc[ERC721 guide].

The EIP consists of three interfaces, found here as {IERC721}, {IERC721Metadata}, and {IERC721Enumerable}. Only the first one is required in a contract to be ERC721 compliant. However, all three are implemented in {ERC721}.

Additionally, {IERC721Receiver} can be used to prevent tokens from becoming forever locked in contracts. Imagine sending an in-game item to an exchange address that can't send it back!. When using <<IERC721-safeTransferFrom,`safeTransferFrom`>>, the token contract checks to see that the receiver is an {IERC721Receiver}, which implies that it knows how to handle {ERC721} tokens. If you're writing a contract that needs to receive {ERC721} tokens, you'll want to include this interface.

Additionally there are multiple custom extensions, including:

* designation of addresses that can pause token transfers for all users ({ERC721Pausable}).
* destruction of own tokens ({ERC721Burnable}).

== Core

{{IERC721}}

{{IERC721Metadata}}

{{IERC721Enumerable}}

{{ERC721}}

{{IERC721Receiver}}

== Extensions

{{ERC721Pausable}}

{{ERC721Burnable}}

== Convenience

{{ERC721Holder}}
