contracts/GSN/README.adoc, before:

= Gas Station Network (GSN)

This set of contracts provide all the tools required to make a contract callable via the https://gsn.openzeppelin.com[Gas Station Network].

TIP: If you're new to the GSN, head over to our xref:learn::sending-gasless-transactions.adoc[overview of the system] and basic guide to xref:ROOT:gsn.adoc[creating a GSN-capable contract].

The core contract a recipient must inherit from is {GSNRecipient}: it includes all necessary interfaces, as well as some helper methods to make interacting with the GSN easier.

Utilities to make writing xref:ROOT:gsn-strategies.adoc[GSN strategies] easy are available in {GSNRecipient}, or you can simply use one of our pre-made strategies:

* {GSNRecipientERC20Fee} charges the end user for gas costs in an application-specific xref:ROOT:tokens.adoc#ERC20[ERC20 token]
* {GSNRecipientSignature} accepts all relayed calls that have been signed by a trusted third party (e.g. a private key in a backend)

You can also take a look at the two contract interfaces that make up the GSN protocol: {IRelayRecipient} and {IRelayHub}, but you won't need to use those directly.

== Recipient

{{GSNRecipient}}

== Strategies

{{GSNRecipientSignature}}
{{GSNRecipientERC20Fee}}

== Protocol

{{IRelayRecipient}}
{{IRelayHub}}

Commit message:

Add readme notices with link to docs site (#2300)
* add readme notices

* remove period after url

contracts/GSN/README.adoc, after:

= Gas Station Network (GSN)

[.readme-notice]
NOTE: This document is better viewed at https://docs.openzeppelin.com/contracts/api/gsn

This set of contracts provide all the tools required to make a contract callable via the https://gsn.openzeppelin.com[Gas Station Network].

TIP: If you're new to the GSN, head over to our xref:learn::sending-gasless-transactions.adoc[overview of the system] and basic guide to xref:ROOT:gsn.adoc[creating a GSN-capable contract].

The core contract a recipient must inherit from is {GSNRecipient}: it includes all necessary interfaces, as well as some helper methods to make interacting with the GSN easier.

Utilities to make writing xref:ROOT:gsn-strategies.adoc[GSN strategies] easy are available in {GSNRecipient}, or you can simply use one of our pre-made strategies:

* {GSNRecipientERC20Fee} charges the end user for gas costs in an application-specific xref:ROOT:tokens.adoc#ERC20[ERC20 token]
* {GSNRecipientSignature} accepts all relayed calls that have been signed by a trusted third party (e.g. a private key in a backend)

You can also take a look at the two contract interfaces that make up the GSN protocol: {IRelayRecipient} and {IRelayHub}, but you won't need to use those directly.

== Recipient

{{GSNRecipient}}

== Strategies

{{GSNRecipientSignature}}
{{GSNRecipientERC20Fee}}

== Protocol

{{IRelayRecipient}}
{{IRelayHub}}
